# Lab 5: Motion Planning
#### Advanced Topics in Computer Science
Dylan Hanson

---
### Objectives
- Allow user manipulation of blank `100x100` grid through coordinate entry
	- Enter `origin` coordinates
	- Enter `destination` coordinates
	- Enter coordinates of obstacles along path
		- OR: Obstacles randomly generated by computer
- Determine shortest coordinate path from `origin` to `destination` using Dijkstra's algorithm
- Visualize path using inline console text

---
### User Interface

#### Menu Navigation
The user interface is entirely console based. It is structured hierarchically as a series of titled, nested menus. At each menu, the user is given a list of options, each identified by a letter, as well as a brief description of the menu/action to be opened/performed upon selection.

	***************************************
    MENU TITLE
    A > Sub-menu 1
    B > Sub-menu 2
    C > Action 1
    
`A`, `B`, and `C` are all options. By typing `A` into the command line, `Menu 1` will be entered.

*Note: Option recognition is case insensitive and error-proof*

#### Coordinate Entry
There are many situations throughout the program in which the user will need to input coordinates. These can be entered in two ways:
1. `X,Y`, with one coordinate pair on each line
2. `X1,Y1` `X2,Y2` `X3,Y3` `X4,Y4` `X5,Y5` with multiple coordinates on each line, separated by spaces

*Note: When prompted for one coordinate, even if the user enters multiple, the first one inputted will be used*

#### Defining Obstacles
It is key that the user be able to input their own obstacles. Obstacles can be added to the graph in two ways:
1. User input
	- User enters either a single coordinate for one obstacle, or two coordinates to define obstacle edges. **When defining obstacles, you may not enter multiple coordinates on one line unless you are defining corners.**
2. Random generation

---
### Obstacle Generation

Obstacles are randomly computer-generated by selecting a random point on the graph, then selecting a diameter from 1 to 6. A block of that size is then placed at the coordinates.

---
### Dijkstra's Algorithm

> An iterative algorithm that finds the most direct path from the `origin` node to the `destination` node. It does this by assuming that the first path to reach the ending node is also the fastest (i.e. shortest) path.

1. All nodes have an intitial distance of infinity, except `starting node`, which has a distance of `zero`
2. Begin with `current node`. This will be `starting node` for first iteration
3. Find all edges connected to `current node` and save the length of each edge
3. For each edge:
4. 		if (current_node.distance + edge.length < connected_node.distance) then (connected_node.distance = current_node.distance + edge.length)
_( Essentially, this gives each node a tangible, shortest possible distance from the starting point )_
5. Find the node with the least distance in the ENTIRE GRAPH. This is now `current node`
6. If `ending node` has been visited, the shortest path has been found
6. Repeat steps 2 through 6 until `ending node` has been visited


###### This algorithm charts the path of least resistance to every point on the graph, allowing us to find that path for `ending node`.
---
### Bugs and Issues

_None currently known_
